README.rst, before:

GTFS Kit
********
.. image:: https://github.com/mrcagney/gtfs_kit/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg

GTFS Kit is a Python 3.10+ library for analyzing `General Transit Feed Specification (GTFS) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GTFS>`_ data in memory without a database.
It uses Pandas and GeoPandas to do the heavy lifting.


Installation
=============
Install it from PyPI with UV, say, via ``uv add gtfs_kit``.


Examples
========
In the Marimo notebook ``notebooks/examples.py``.


Authors
=========
- Alex Raichev (2019-09), maintainer


Documentation
=============
The documentation is built via Sphinx from the source code in the ``docs`` directory then published to Github Pages at `mrcagney.github.io/gtfs_kit_docs <https://mrcagney.github.io/gtfs_kit_docs>`_.

Note to the maintainer: To update the docs do ``uv run publish-sphinx-docs``, then enter the docs remote ``git@github.com:mrcagney/gtfs_kit_docs``.


Notes
=====
- This project's development status is Alpha.
  I use GTFS Kit at my job and change it breakingly to suit my needs.
- This project uses semantic versioning.
- I aim for GTFS Kit to handle `the current GTFS <https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs/reference>`_.
  In particular, i avoid handling `GTFS extensions <https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs/reference/gtfs-extensions>`_.
  That is the most reasonable scope boundary i can draw at present, given this project's tiny budget.
  If you would like to fund this project to expand its scope, please email me.
- Thanks to `MRCagney <http://www.mrcagney.com/>`_ for periodically donating to this project.
- Constructive feedback and contributions are welcome.
  Please issue pull requests from a feature branch into the ``develop`` branch and include tests.
- GTFS time is measured relative to noon minus 12 hours, which can mess things up when crossing into daylight savings time.
  I don't think this issue causes any bugs in GTFS Kit, but you and i have been warned.
  Thanks to user Github user ``derhuerst`` for bringing this to my attention in `closed Issue 8 <https://github.com/mrcagney/gtfs_kit/issues/8#issue-1063633457>`_.
- With release 10.0.0, i removed the validation module ``validators.py`` to avoid duplicating the work of what is now `the canonical feed validator <https://github.com/MobilityData/gtfs-validator>`_ (written in Java).
- I'll probably move to Polars + Polars ST for the next big release so the library can handle big feeds faster.

Commit message:

Added GTFS-JP necessary specifications, documentation, and test notebook in Marimo

README.rst, after:

GTFS JP Kit
********
.. image:: https://github.com/mrcagney/gtfs_kit/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg

GTFS JP Kit is a fork of [GTFS Kit](https://github.com/mrcagney/gtfs_kit) by Alex Raichev. 
GTFS JP Kit is a Python 3.10+ library for analyzing `General Transit Feed Specification (GTFS) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GTFS>`_ data in memory without a database.
It adapts and extends the original library to support the GTFS JP transit data specification and related workflows, found in `MLIT <https://www.mlit.go.jp/sogoseisaku/transport/content/001419163.pdf#page=7>` specifications.

The original GTFS Kit (© Alex Raichev, 2019–present) is licensed under the MIT License.  
This project remains under the same license.

It uses Pandas and GeoPandas to do the heavy lifting.

Installation
=============
Install it from PyPI with UV, say, via ``uv add gtfs_jp_kit``.

Examples
========
In the Marimo notebook ``notebooks/examples.py``. 

Install dependencies and run the `marimo` notebook as follows from the base.
```
uv sync
uv run --no-project marimo run notebooks/examples.py
```

Note that the notebook uses `japan_data` rather than `data`.

Authors
=========
- Kushal Chattopadhyay (2025-10), editor
- Alex Raichev (2019-09), maintainer

Documentation
=============
The documentation is built via Sphinx from the source code in the ``docs`` directory then published to Github Pages at `mrcagney.github.io/gtfs_kit_docs <https://mrcagney.github.io/gtfs_kit_docs>`_.

Note to the maintainer: To update the docs do ``uv run publish-sphinx-docs``, then enter the docs remote ``git@github.com:mrcagney/gtfs_kit_docs``.


Notes
=====
- This project's development status is Alpha.
  I use GTFS Kit at my job and change it breakingly to suit my needs.
- This project uses semantic versioning.
- I aim for GTFS Kit to handle `the current GTFS <https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs/reference>`_.
  In particular, i avoid handling `GTFS extensions <https://developers.google.com/transit/gtfs/reference/gtfs-extensions>`_.
  That is the most reasonable scope boundary i can draw at present, given this project's tiny budget.
  If you would like to fund this project to expand its scope, please email me.
- Thanks to `MRCagney <http://www.mrcagney.com/>`_ for periodically donating to this project.
- Constructive feedback and contributions are welcome.
  Please issue pull requests from a feature branch into the ``develop`` branch and include tests.
- GTFS time is measured relative to noon minus 12 hours, which can mess things up when crossing into daylight savings time.
  I don't think this issue causes any bugs in GTFS Kit, but you and i have been warned.
  Thanks to user Github user ``derhuerst`` for bringing this to my attention in `closed Issue 8 <https://github.com/mrcagney/gtfs_kit/issues/8#issue-1063633457>`_.
- With release 10.0.0, i removed the validation module ``validators.py`` to avoid duplicating the work of what is now `the canonical feed validator <https://github.com/MobilityData/gtfs-validator>`_ (written in Java).
- I'll probably move to Polars + Polars ST for the next big release so the library can handle big feeds faster.
